yeah
oh
oh it keeps going
hey
good morning good afternoon good evening
we're coming from hope you all are doing
well
welcome back folks
we're back for day two in that js up
again hope you all are doing well
welcome back welcome back welcome back
get in here get in here
ah
tonight's a night i love tonight
tonight we get to build more stuff we
get to play around with some new things
and so it'll be a lot of fun lots of
practice lots of examples super excited
for you to come back for javascript
class two class two folks
we've only had one class of javascript
so far this is class two welcome back
everybody hey
what's going on get in get in get in get
in
alrighty so we're jumping right into it
tonight we got a lot of cool stuff to
get into uh you always know we like to
start off with questions i'm going to
start off with questions this evening
then we're going to get into it
global crisis hey thank you for the five
gifted subs
that's such a good name
starting off with a global crisis i
appreciate it thank you so much
deep fried penguin hey thank you for if
i get the subs as well oh yo y'all
popping off hey
welcome in everybody hope y'all doing
well
uh
for those that are new or might just be
joining us for the first time welcome
i'm leon we're running a free 30-week
software engineering bootcamp going from
zero to employed
we're doing good
do we get spring break
we'll talk about it so last cohort um
last cohort we had the holidays in
between and so we started a little bit
later right we started a little bit
later so we'll probably have some sort
of break coming up but we haven't said
anything in stone yet just a little bit
more time for you to work on projects so
once we get a little bit deeper into
javascript and we're feeling good a
little bit of time to like actually
build something more substantial
hey
all right you know like we like to do we
always start off with some questions the
question of the day
is what did you do for yourself this
weekend part of your homework was to do
something good for yourself kind for
yourself nice for yourself what you all
do
taco bell
ate waffles i love it all these are food
related
all right garden
went to vegas what
new coffee maker okay
hate dominoes hey let's go turn up
i need i need like a i need like an air
horn i don't i can't believe i don't
have this but somebody went to domino's
[Music]
all right cool
got some new games we're playing on the
on the playstations made some muffins
napped i'll take it
miriam the that hey thank you for the
five get themselves hope you're doing
well i hope you're feeling better
welcome back
pokemon
no code and all caps cool i love it
took the day off
okay went shopping
saw granny hey turn up
played a disc golf tourney i watch an
unhealthy amount of disc golf on youtube
i've never played disc golf in my life i
just like watching it on youtube i don't
know why i think that's a little weird
but i've watched a lot of it
nespresso machine okay living good life
alright folks you actually did some
stuff
i asked y'all to do something nice for
yourself and it looks like we might have
actually done some nice things for our
stuff i love it
lasik
that's awesome
hope you hope you're doing well
hopefully don't stare at the screens too
much
can you do that can you get lasik and
then like next day be here like staring
at a screen for three hours be careful
be
don't stress your eyes out you can
always you can always join the ketchup
crew for a day catch the vod on uh here
on twitch or of course i always upload
the videos to youtube
you got a job hey world you did get a
job shout out to you i gotta i i got to
put your uh your message in the slides
i'll get get you on thursday
congrats that's huge so happy for you
alrighty folks
you got a lot of questions in
i'm glad y'all are here
glad day one of javascript didn't scare
you back you came back right you came
back you're ready to get some so let's
get some tonight
all right tonight
we don't get we are
we are talking about imposter syndrome
it's something that most of you are
going to experience it's something
that's going to sit deep within you for
a while and so i want to make sure we
talk about it from the beginning so
we're going to start off with imposter
syndrome
we're going to talk about the basics of
programming we're going to cover the
basics of javascript that we covered
last class so
if last class variables didn't work for
you if conditionals didn't work for you
don't worry we're going over all that
stuff again we're going to look at the
two things from the end of class that we
didn't get a chance to get to
the angry parent simulator and the
temperature converter so we're going to
start off with those then we're going to
spend some time talking and going deeper
with our pseudo code getting a chance to
talk through
the temperature converter not with code
but with this idea of a skill that's
going to help us for the rest of our
careers and help us write really good
code going forward
we're going to learn about functions
we're going to add on to the big four
remember i said the big four are
variables conditionals functions and
loops well guess what we're adding
functions into the mix we got variables
and a little bit of conditionals last
time so we're going to see those the the
next one of the big four and then we're
going to talk through some of the
homework so a lot to get into tonight a
lot of fun stuff i love this i love this
point in the boot camp
i love this point in the bootcamp
because we can actually start to build
real stuff so we're gonna we're gonna
keep that playful spirit tonight we're
gonna build we're gonna see stuff from
different angles we're gonna start
getting you more comfortable with the
syntax and we're gonna take it easy and
work our way into javascript so i'm glad
you're here glad you're ready to carry
some boats and logs ready to put in some
work so let's get to it
all right
if you have not checked in please do so
you can always do exclamation point
check in here in chat or if you're just
following me on twitter you can just
retweet the tweet
and like it please or always in the
following materials or the go live
message so i know check it's full with
the check in which i love to see um but
know that you can always just kind of do
it early if you want to as well
alrighty so go ahead and check in
uh this is my
my magnus
magnus opus my my the the culmination of
years of hard work uh this is uh
this is a long time coming it's
something i've worked very very hard for
and uh when i was on twitter
and i was i was looking on the right
hand side where it shows you the
relevant folks we did it
we really did that thing folks look at
us go we got the relevant people
yourself yes sir and a domino's pizza
together so thank you for checking in
and making my dreams come true
this wouldn't have happened without you
cool
submitting homework so
uh i asked you last class
to
take what we did
and play with it
right take what you did and like we did
together and break it
add to it make it different make it your
own play with it so if you did that
right if you did it if you didn't it's
okay if you did that i would love to see
what you built right
a lot of people have been throwing on
twitter i love it throw it on twitter at
me i would love to see the things you
build coming out of this class right so
for folks that worked on it played with
it broke it rebuilt it right right
what is this me this mean this is your
last time streaming yeah we've peaked
this is it this is peak right here folks
you're seeing it live
for those that broke it played with it
built it i would love to see what you
did throw it in a co-pen for me all
right throw it in a coat pen for me show
me the
at least the the extra numbers you added
show me the um
extra bits and bobs that i asked you the
extra color right and if you took it
even further than that i love to see it
so go ahead throw the code that you did
into a codepen and submit the url for me
cool
now some folks have been sharing the
things that they did
between now and last class and it's been
amazing
uh is glitch okay of course glitch is
okay replace okay whatever those works
we just take them down if we pick one so
whatever you want to use is fine with me
uh cuzzy
thank you for the hydration cheers to
you
got a lovely uh
hot coffee today
all right
yeah so some folks have been sharing
what they did on twitter and i just want
to show some of those i think they're
really cool
uh so let's start this one here uh this
is a mario kart version of the
background picker uh you can go ahead
and kind of select the different
characters and they show up that's wild
i love it
another one i saw
was the uh weather changer so you could
change the weather from sunny
to rainy uh to windy to snowy which is
pretty dope
right so taking the youtube background
picker and making it your own
uh there was a mortal kombat one as well
yeah mortal kombat one as well which is
pretty neat
i'm going to share
all the links
i'm gonna share all the links on uh
discord afterwards and so go ahead and
like these for me folks i've retweeted
most of them but go ahead and like them
too it's really cool to see what people
are building so this is this was the
mortal kombat one
uh this was a nail polish picker which
was really cool i love it you picked the
different nail polishes and the nail
changes
and then this other one was pick your
favorite uh starters
right from pokemon so i thought these
were pretty dope and so that's what i
want to see folks right when i when i
say hey
take the homework
right
take the homework and make it your own
right make it your own play with it
break it change things tweak it that's
what i'm saying make your own the way
that you learn how to code is by doing
right a lot of folks we we saw that code
for the first time
right the the truth is you didn't need
to understand anything that was
happening in that code base to add
another smurf or to add another event
listener you had you didn't need to know
anything that was happening in that code
to
to make one more thing happen right i
don't care if you knew the syntax it's
just playing with legos so in the
beginning you got to write some bad code
right you got to be a bad you got to
write some bad code and treat it like
lego blocks see how things come together
break stuff make it a little bit more
than what you have right and so as we
start getting into the homework that's
what i'm looking for this idea where
you're going to take it make it your own
because there's a lot of you here right
there's a lot of you here and what we
don't want in the end
are thousands
of portfolios that look the same
right we don't want thousands of
portfolios that look the same and so
make sure
right make sure you're making them your
own pick something you're excited about
something you're passionate about
something that is just cool to you
and infuse those into the projects that
you do if you do that you're gonna have
a way more personal portfolio and you're
gonna have some things to help you stand
out against others
where can we find assets like those
that's my biggest hurdle
i'm sure most folks are just using
google like google images
um
yeah it's a fine line when you're doing
stuff
but if it's not for commercial use
you're you're not probably going to get
gap but i'm not a lawyer don't take this
advice at all
yeah there are other sites that have
gifts too like giphy is a really popular
one gift cat stuff like that
the cool things too is on google images
you can actually do a google image
search and then there's like a setting
that says like like copyright free
right copyright free and like you can
find more resources like that too
but yeah have some fun with it
alrighty so thank you for submitting
your work
i want to talk about something really
important tonight
uh and the thing i want to talk about is
imposter syndrome now i just showed
a bunch of really cool
examples of folks that took the homework
and made it their own
right
and when i do this
there are some people
that immediately start to panic
right they start to freak out
and they start to say wait a minute
are these people further along than me
are these people
do they know more than i know is is all
the stuff that i know invalid or did i
did i did i even was even there last
class right
and so
this idea of imposter syndrome shows up
in a lot of different ways
it can be when you're looking around at
others and you feel a little bit worse
about the things that you're doing uh it
shows up a lot when
you're maybe on the job and you go do i
really know the stuff that i that i
claim to know or when you get assigned a
really hard project and it doesn't
doesn't really go your way like wait did
i just do this for all this amount of
time right there there's these like
feelings that come up this this this
like this thing in the back of your
brain telling you that you're not good
enough
or that you can't do the things that you
think you can do
and the really hard thing to tell you
is that for a lot of folks it never goes
away
it just doesn't so you learn how to kind
of deal with it and to adjust a little
bit for me i still have it i i i
in my brain there's something that tells
me i don't know how to code i don't know
what it is but there's something in my
brain that tells me that i don't notice
it i know i know how to code right i
i've built amazing projects for lots of
amazing clients like i i teach like i've
helped hundreds thousands of people
learn how to code right i know i know
how to code but there's something in my
brain that tells me i don't that this is
all this is all a scam this is all uh
uh uh uh like a uh
a facade and the the green screen's
gonna come crashing down and people are
gonna figure out that i don't know how
to code and it's all gonna be over
right
i don't know
how to get that
feeling
out of my brain
and if i have it
i know a lot of you have it too
because i've been doing this [__] for 10
years
all right
and so i really need you to know
that you're that you're not alone
when you start to feel these things
or or start to heal the hear these
thoughts in your brain
right imposter syndrome is very real and
it's something that affects a lot of
people specifically
in tech
right because when you're learning to
code
people think that and it's not true
people think that if you know how to
code more or better that you tie it to
like your intelligence you tie it to
like your smarts right smart people can
code that's all cap it's just not real
like like like yes it probably helps but
it's it's it's learning lego blocks and
how they come together effectively right
i wouldn't look at some kid building
legos and go wow they're way smarter
than me because they can put legos
together it's not it's not it's just
it's just they spent more time with it
they had different privileges going into
it and you can't let these things weigh
on you
right
because it'll stop you from getting what
you want
and so we we've we've used this
example
of being on a roller coaster
right we're all beyonce on a roller
coaster right and we're going down the
hill like we're we're going down the
hill
we're almost ready to crash into
the trough of star like we're on the
bottom right we're on one roller coaster
we're all flying down and some of us are
on this roller coaster looking at the
person three or four carts ahead of us
and going
how how are they ahead of us on this
roller coaster right like how how are
they three or four carts further down
into the trough of sorrow
and it just doesn't make sense
we're all on the same roller coaster
together right some folks got here a
little bit earlier
right
some folks paid for the [__] fastpass
right but we're still all on the same
roller coaster we're all gonna get to
the same place eventually you can't be
mad that there's a person three or four
carts ahead of you and going damn i'll
never get there you're hurtling into the
abyss and you're mad that somebody's
gonna get there a couple classes before
you
it just doesn't make sense
we're all on the same roller coaster
we're all going to get there eventually
you can't be looking
at the person three or four cards ahead
of you going damn how are they doing it
they're not doing anything they're just
on the same freaking roller coaster you
are they got there half an hour earlier
so what i need you to do
as you're going through
right as you're going through this
experience don't look at the person a
few cards ahead of you on the roller
coaster it makes no sense look at
yourself
where were you different a class ago
where were you different a week ago
where were you different
a month ago
and where are you going to be a year
from now
that's what you need to focus on
not not where somebody else is on the
roller coaster that makes no sense but
you got to look at yourself where am i
at on the roller coaster am i being my
best beyonce possible
am i enjoying the ride or am i the
person that's like in line mad that
somebody bought the fastpass
right
so tonight
uh i want to do something that if you
watch the video
right if you watch the video uh dr
thomas has a saying in there that says i
don't care about your reality i want you
to dream
all right he said i don't care about
your reality i want you to dream tonight
i don't care about your reality
i want you to leave your reality at the
door
right i don't care about that tonight
tonight i want you to dream
so
i don't care about the pain of last
class i don't care how much you struggle
to understand the syntax i don't care
how inflamed your imposter syndrome is
right now because you saw some other
projects and you're mad at somebody
that's a few cards ahead of you on the
roller coaster
uh i don't want any of that you're gonna
leave all that at the door tonight and
we're gonna dream a little bit
all right we're gonna dream a little bit
tonight and so
tonight
if you didn't finish the js from last
class you leave that at the door
if you didn't finish your homework you
leave that at the door
uh
any of those feelings
of saying i'm not ready i can't do this
i don't understand that's your reality i
don't want that tonight you leave that
at the door so when i click this next
slide
we leave our reality at the door
we're opening up the idea that we're
going to dream together we're going to
play together we're going to break stuff
together we're going to have fun
and when i go to this next slide that
reality slips away and we're here to
learn some javascript you ready
aye aye captain boom
alrighty
golden rule separation of concerns we're
gonna leave
the content in our html
we're going to leave the style in our
css and that behavior and interaction
goes into our javascript why
why
why do we need this
yeah organization exactly
our code is getting a little bit more
complex now
marty cats hey thank you for the five
gifts that subs i appreciate you thank
you for being here
right our codes get a little more
complicated now
we're going to have bigger files we're
going to have bigger things we have to
keep track of
we're manipulating the dom and all that
cool stuff and we need to keep ourself
organized for ourselves and our team so
this golden rule helps us stay organized
beautiful
we saw ideas in classes when we were
learning html and css but last class
when we first dipped our toes into the
javascript pool we saw that ids can be
really helpful now
right they saw that they could be really
helpful now when we put an id on
something this enables us to target it
with our javascript right i i don't
really
use right i don't really use ids when
i'm writing my html or css but when it
comes to javascript i can latch on to
those ids to target that element so that
i can listen for clicks so i can do
stuff to it so i can put stuff in it
take stuff out of it right and so these
ideas are going to become really helpful
for us when we are in javascript same
thing for classes remember ids you can
only target one element classes you can
target multiple elements right and yes
you can target a class you can target
all the things with the class at the
same time i think we'll actually see
that in one of the examples tonight
right so you can target classes you can
target um
really cool stuff that just aren't the
ids and so you're going to see them come
a little bit more when it comes to our
javascript
the cool thing about being able to
target classes since you asked is that
you can bind
smurfs to a lot of stuff at one time
so what if you want like the same smurf
on a bunch of different stuff right well
there's a way
right
right there's a way that we can loop
through everything that has a class
and put a smurf on it right so we're not
at loops yet but there's a way where we
can loop through and put a smurf on
every single thing and so by using that
class we can listen for similar types of
clicks
pretty neat
cool
talk about programming and we're going
to talk about programming tonight
right programming
comes down to one very simple thing
a computer will do what you tell it to
do
right that's it
a computer will do what you tell it to
do
now it'll do it a lot faster
it'll do it a lot quicker than we could
probably do it on our own but it'll do
what we tell it to do now
a program is simply a set of
instructions that you write to tell a
computer what to do
right so
last class we all wrote programs our
programs were simple sets of
instructions and those instructions
told our computer what to do we were
able to change background colors we were
able to
do things
based off of the instructions that we
wrote right and so that leads us to the
idea of programming
programming is simply writing those
instructions in a language that the
computer can understand
why why why am i saying in a language
that the computer can understand why do
i bring that up
writing is instructions in a language a
computer can understand what is why do i
say that
yeah
i love it people like javascript is for
humans exactly
javascript is for humans right
javascript is the language that we're
writing so that we understand what's
happening in our code right so that when
we hand it off to another developer they
understand what's happening in that code
right
but
our computers really don't understand
javascript that javascript has to be
broken down into something that the
computer can actually really understand
right and so
we talked about independence day and we
talked about independence day being a
true
story
right a true story why is independence
day a true story
we have a saying around these parts
why is independence day a true story
bub exactly
yeah binary upload
boom
in independence day jeff goldblum saves
the world by running a computer virus
that infects the alien mothership the
shields go down on all the other ships
we nuke the crap out of those ships save
the world america
right
and so it's a true story because that's
actually what would happen jeff goldblum
didn't understand the alien language but
they were able to break that alien
language all the way down into simple
logic
maybe all the way down to the binary the
equivalence of on and off right we hope
that even if aliens are far far out in
the world right that physics is
universal math is universal the idea of
on and off is universal so we can take
anything and break it down further and
further
closer to the code that the machine or
the computer can actually understand and
then build our way back up
right so
independence day is a true story because
we would be able to take that alien
language break it all the way down to
something the computer could understand
and bring it all the way back up we call
that binary upload boom
now
since we're talking about this
higher level language this javascript
that's meant for us to be human readable
and some of you are like leon it didn't
look human readable to me
trust me it could get way worse did
anybody watch the the game boy video
anybody watch that game boy video
yeah it gets wild right
so i shared that video
so you could see the stuff that we don't
have to do
like we don't we're not nope
next you cut
that ain't for me
i'm not about to get in there
and do that kind of stuff it was cool
but i i i'll i'll keep my ad event
listener i'll keep my uh my document
i'll i'll i'll keep my dot value
right
because that's a little wild and so
javascript
is a human readable languages so that we
can read and understand and then it gets
broken down into the that like really
wild stuff that was in that that video
right
now
javascript has a specific syntax
right there's gonna be lots of new words
terms punctuations
odd stuff
that at first glance might cause you to
have a panic attack and i don't say that
lightly i really do mean that some
students look at javascript
they
freak out
and
they click x and they never come back
okay
and so i say that because i want to let
you know that that's okay
if the very first time last class we
looked at javascript right and you kind
of lost a little bit that's okay
all right
here's the thing i need you to do though
oh calamity pixie thank you for
hydration cheers to you
i'm like here's this here's what you
need to do and i'm like oh sorry i just
need to drink something real quick
here's what you need to do
you need to play more
you have to understand
that the syntax
is not going to make sense
it just won't for some folks they come
to programming with different mental
models than others and when they look at
it at first it just doesn't make sense
but what you have to do
is
type it out
play with it
break it delete it do it again
type it out play with it break it delete
it do it again
play with it break it delete it do it
again and you do that over
and over again
and if you did that for the code that we
ran into
last week
you would start to notice some patterns
and early on
learning the code is simply pattern
recognition
you
won't really know
what's happening under the hood until we
get further on
so you're going to see some things
the document you're going to see the the
the query selector and you're not going
to know that query selector is a method
built into javascript it doesn't matter
that you know the terminology or what's
happening underneath of it you just have
to know that when i use that thing i can
i can grab stuff
right and so you play
you break you delete and you do it again
right
and you play you break you do it again
and if you do this enough you start to
notice the little patterns
and you at least have some syntax in
your brain so that as you start to do
more complicated stuff you you have a
place to do it or you've already done it
right and you might add some of that to
your inky you might add some of the
things that you're running into that you
start to notice oh this is how i do a
smurf for an event listener add that to
anki oh here's how i get a value out of
an input let's add that to anki oh
here's how i put something back into the
dom let me add that to anki
right
and
over time
we will build up to more and more
complicated things and over time we'll
break down and digest exactly what is
happening
right but in the beginning
you're trying to pattern recognize don't
also put on top of you this idea that
you have to understand everything
you can't
you won't it's too much i see some folks
that go really deep trying to really
understand
all the things that an ad event listener
could do that's that's a little too much
in the beginning play with it break it
you're better off trying to build
something than you are doom scrolling on
the mdn for four hours
i rather you build stuff at this stage
right build stuff at this stage than
going super super into trying to
understand all the technical bits and
bobs it's just too much
cool
let's talk about variables
i feel like leon was looking at my
shoulder while i was working on this
i've done this for a little while i've
done this for a little while
but yeah please
you gotta be playful with yourself
you're one class into javascript
you're one class you're a one class into
javascript
if you're saying to yourself i can't do
this i can't do this i'll never do it
what are you talking about
you're one class in and it wasn't even a
full class there was other stuff we were
doing you're three hours in
you're three hours in
if you understand anything in those
three hours you you're so far ahead of
every single other person has ever tried
to do this
please
don't be upset at yourself that after
one class less than three hours of
instruction you're not i'm not a
javascript master like i
can't do it
leave that reality at the door come play
with me we're here to dream folks
we're here to dream
it's okay
if you're trying to learn japanese after
one class you want to be freaking out i
can't do this i'll never do this oh no
you'd be dreaming about going to tokyo
speaking with folks
having good time
eating good food
right do the same thing when you're
learning how to code
be kind to yourself
you're one class in
some folks bought the fast pass
it's okay if you don't have it
you're going to take your time you're
going to play
you're going to dream
and from those dreams will build amazing
stuff
all right let's talk about variables
what are variables how much is the fast
pass
[Laughter]
that's that's the uh
that's leon premium
[Laughter]
sorry it's really funny
[Music]
all right what are variables i see
people throwing it in chat
right
this is the fast pass exactly this is
the fastpass you're going to be running
laps around folks that are not in this
course
right you're going to be running laps
around folks that are not in this course
folks that are coming out of other boot
camps laps
right you're going to be on the roller
coaster having a good time they're in
the parking lot
they're not even in the they're not even
in yet they're in the parking lot
looking at people on that roller coaster
going damn they're having a great time
right don't compare yourself to folks in
the parking lot that are just seeing the
roller coaster go by they're not even in
the park yet
cool
all right variable people are saying
data buckets
uh variables are a way we can tell our
program to remember stuff to use
later on
right that's all it is it's a it's a
thing we use to store a value for later
on
the other boot camps are a little caesar
exactly
right
it's a way for us to create a bucket
put something in and then at any time in
the future we want the thing out of the
bucket we can take it out and there are
two
key steps when it comes to using
variables the first step is declaration
the second step is assignment so if we
have memory
if we have memory right so let's put a
little memory box here
beautiful
oh that's clean all right let's say we
have some memory
all right
we have some memory
the first step is the declaration so i'm
going to go ahead and create a space in
memory
called
age
all right called age
now
if i try to use age
somewhere else in my code
what would i get
was is
would i get an error if i try to use age
somewhere in my code what would happen
let's take a look at it let's actually
do it together let's open up the
inspector here
go to console
let's go ahead and say let age
right
and then let's ask for age
now we're not really getting like a
pretty big error but we're getting
undefined
what does that mean what is what does
undefined mean
let's ask for dog
not document frank i want to type out
dog there we go
uncaught reference error dog is not
defined
okay so we saw here
that we declared age
we created that space in memory
but with dog with two g's
we didn't actually ever create that
space in memory so we got two different
bits of information here when we
declared it but never gave it a value we
get undefined
right but if we never even declare it we
get this error saying hey it doesn't
even exist in memory there's nothing in
memory called dog with two g's right and
so when we look
let's type this out again
on this first pass we do let age we
create a space in memory called age now
if we ever ask for age it's going to say
it's undefined like it exists we know
what bucket you're talking about
there's just nothing inside of it right
we have a bucket called age there's just
nothing inside of it it is an empty
bucket exactly so if we ask for that
bucket if we ask for age somewhere else
in our code base it's just going to say
undefined
right
right it's going to say undefined like
we know what you're talking about
there's just nothing in that bucket
the second step the assignment is where
we put a value into that bucket
right so when we do the assignment we
put 25
into the bucket
now
right
i can just in the console yeah you could
js in the console
now if i ask for age at any point in
time i'm going to get 25. so if i ask
for age if i if i want to throw it into
a string
if i want to alert it if i want to
console log if i want to do anything
with that age it'll now be 25 and it'll
stay 25 until what
it'll stay 25 until what
yeah until it's reassigned exactly
until it's reassigned when it's
reassigned we take this value right we
take this value
and we can do whatever we want with it
so we could say
age
equals
plus
five
right if i did um i just realized i'm
behind myself hold on let's go over here
i could do age
equals age plus five
what would i now be reassigning
age to be
yeah it'd be 30 right age was 25
now we did 25 plus 5 and that gives us
30. so now age is 30 and whatever was in
that space in memory
is now
30. boom
i love it
cool
whenever i'm creating my variables i
will use camelcase
right i'll use camelcase my first word
will be lowercase every other word will
be capitalized right and we can't put
spaces
why can't we put spaces
yeah what what exactly some folks are
saying it might be multiple variables
exactly if we
if we use spaces we might run into some
problems where it's trying to find other
things like of or apples and it's like
trying to see
uh if they exist right so you would run
into like if we had a space here we
would declare a space in memory called
number
right but then like is it trying to call
a function is it trying to call like
trying to find of is it trying to find
apples right so spaces can get us into
trouble you can actually uh declare
multiple things at the same time by
using commas so you could do like
let
dog
comma
cat
i don't know bird right and now you've
declared three things into memory but we
don't jump ahead too much on that i just
want to say that to you so camo casing
is the one i like because i can reuse
camo casing
right i can reuse camo casing across my
html i can use it across my css and i
can use it on my javascript right so
you're going to see me use camel casing
if you don't want to use cable casing
that's okay just be consistent in
whatever you do use
right some companies are going to
some companies are going to have
different things that they want you to
do and it'll work
uh closed captioning should be working
it's turned on i can see that it's
listening to me make sure you actually
click the the icon
yeah
yeah it's working yeah i'll give it a
refresh if you need it and then click
the little icon but it's on i can see
that it's working
cool alrighty
now we talked about two different kinds
of types
right
we said there's gonna be lots of
different kinds of variables we talked
about two different types of like
variables hold data right we're putting
data into those buckets and we said that
there's two kinds of data we've talked
about so far we call these types what
are the two things we've talked about so
far
yeah
numbers and strings exactly so let's
let's revisit those numbers and strings
all right strings are pieces of text
they are going to be surrounded by
either double quotes
single quotes or ticks which we'll see a
little bit later today
now what's the thing we have to keep in
mind when we're when we're wrapping our
strings in quotes
one thing we have to keep in mind what's
the thing that could get us into trouble
yeah
[Music]
consistency is good but also yeah this
idea is that whatever you use on the
inside
like whatever you use on the inside you
have to be careful not to use on the
outside or the same weather way around
right like whatever you use on the
outside be careful not to use it on the
inside if you use the same stuff on the
outside and on the inside you're gonna
have your string stop
at that inside quote and then there's
gonna be some stuff that the the the
program just doesn't recognize
so you to make sure that your quotes on
the outside are different than the
quotes on the inside or
or what could you do
yeah i could escape them right we could
go ahead and do the uh let's say this
was double quotes right
and so we have double quotes on the
outside we have double quotes on the on
the outside and we have double quotes on
the inside this would this would break
unless we
escaped
our characters
when we do that lovely backslash
javascript doesn't read the backslash it
just says that quote's good to go don't
stop the string
more we're going to see the the the
template literal in a little bit later
tonight yeah
what does it mean to escape it just
means that you are
not
going to run into trouble
using the same on the uh on the inside
is on the outside basically you're
telling it to ignore it so escaping is
the same as like ignore it don't end the
string
cool
we talked about numbers there are
actually two different kinds of numbers
we have integers which are whole numbers
and floated values which are numbers
with decimal places
so you're going to hear people say refer
to numbers as integer values or floated
values and when they say float it they
just mean it has a decimal place
we also can have signed numbers meaning
that numbers can be positive and
negative in javascript you'll see that
and then we have basic arithmetic
and so with our arithmetic you will use
the plus sign for addition
you'll use the hyphen for subtraction
you'll use the asterisk for
multiplication you'll use the forward
sign uh sorry the forward slash for
division and then we have this lovely
modulus not a percent it's a modulus
what does modulus do for us
yeah it gives us the remainder so
remainder is like you divide a number in
and whatever is left over is what you
get as a result of modulus so if we did
10 mod 2 what are we getting
we did ten mod two chat what are we
doing what are we getting back
yeah we're getting zero
right we're getting zero because two
went into ten five times and there's
nothing left over so we get zero
how about ten
mod
four
what do we get with ten mod four
yeah we'd get two exactly because four
would go into ten two times which is
eight
and we'd have two left over
oh
how about one more
ten
mod 6 what will we get
yeah we have 4 right because 6 goes into
10 one time there's 4 left over
beautiful
all right
what can modules be really helpful for
really early on like we said there's
like a use case where modulus could be
helpful for us when when we when when we
use modulus early on what could it help
us with
yeah even an odd exactly right if we
take any number and modulus two
and we get zero we know that it's an
even number right eight mod two would
give us zero six mod two would give us
zero four mod two would give us zero so
anytime you get the zero back you would
know that it's even if you ever had any
kind of remainder you would know that it
is odd so we can use this modulus early
on to do things like even and odd which
is pretty helpful
some folks are saying you could help
with primes yeah it could probably help
with primes too yeah
alrighty
now
that's variables we talked about
variables as
buckets that can hold a value for use
later on that's one of the big four
the second or the big four are
conditionals
conditionals enable us to do something
if a statement is true so if a statement
is true
we would do what's inside of the curly
braces
right now to utilize conditionals well
we actually have to know how to do
comparison we need to figure out if
something is true or false right so in
this case i think our age is at 30 right
now because we did 25 plus 5. so if we
used age here as a variable
and it's equal to 30
what would inside the parentheses
evaluate to what would this what would
this evaluate to in the end
what does that evaluate to i know it's a
weird thing to say what does it evaluate
to
yeah it evaluates the true
right
30 is indeed greater than 18 and so that
is a true statement what happens inside
the parentheses is that this is the same
thing as saying true
and if
the statement is true
you do what's inside the curly braces so
we would see in the console log
you are an adult
right you are an adult
right so
if
right if
we
want to do
more in-depth
conditionals right if we want to be able
to to do things
and and and do things only in certain
scenarios we have to get better at
understanding comparison are things true
or false and so let's break down
comparison together
we know javascript is a little funky
when it comes to comparison because we
can compare not only numbers we can also
like compare strings to each other
javascript is a little a little loose
like that
cool
now here we have the example that we
skirted at the at
last class right we only did we only did
a few of them and then we then we uh
then we moved on
so whenever you see
a variable let's say there's let here
whenever you see one equal sign what is
that always going to be in javascript
land
what is the one equal sign always going
to be yeah it's always going to be
assignment right we had memory
right we had memory
and we created a new space in memory
called x
and then we assigned that space in
memory
the value of 3.
so anytime i want to use x
right now until i reassign it it is the
value of 3.
all right so let's look at this first
one
i'm going to look at x i need to use x x
right now is what chat x is what right
now
x is three right now great
when i see two equal signs
right i notice right here i have two
equal signs
down here i have three when i have two
what am i talking about what am i
comparing
yeah
it's just value
one equal sign has nothing to do with
comparison that is assignment
two equal signs is just value are the
values the same so in this case is three
equal to eight no
three and eight are two completely
different values that is a false
statement
all right
next one
is
three equal to string three but now when
we have three equal signs we're not only
looking at value
we are also looking at
type
so
is number three
equal to string three in value
in value let's do value first
yes
number three and string three are the
same value they're both three
however
with three equal signs we also care
about type is number three equal to
string three in type no
one is a number one is a string that
makes this a false
statement
next one
all right
all right let's do the next one
three
there's number three
equal number three in value
yes
all right number three equals number
three and value
now
does number three
equal number three
in type
i hope so yeah yes
right
yes
three is equal to three in value and
type
cool
now let's start doing the trickier ones
let's start doing the trickier ones
does three
not equal eight
in value
when it's when it's when it's the
exclamation point that means not
that means not so we're saying not equal
and it's just one equal sign right so
that means that we're saying not equal
in value
so does three
not equal eight in value yeah that's a
true statement yes three does not equal
eight in value one is three one is eight
beautiful now this is where people run
away and cry right here you ready for
this one
three
does three sorry number three
not equal string three
in value
and
type
that's a true statement number three
does not equal string three in value and
type it's equal in value but not in type
so since it is not equal in value and
type that is a true statement it is not
equal in value and type
right
you see that the bank equal equals
that's value and type right so number
three is not equal to string three in
value and type right
it's just value that is a true
statement
don't worry about that one that bri it
just breaks people's brains i don't know
why i i had to come back to that one
like four or five times before it
actually clicked
yeah
yeah so don't let that one break your
brain a little bit right you're gonna
see it a lot we're gonna bring it up in
real real world scenarios but what we're
saying here is that three doesn't equal
string three like number three does not
equal string three in both value and
type so that's a true statement right it
doesn't equal it right it's like the
same thing as saying like
like zebra doesn't equal duck
yeah of course zebra doesn't equal duck
they're different things well the number
and the string are different things so
that is a true statement
cool
uh next one
does number three
not equal number three
in value and type
this number three
not equal number three in value and type
it does
number three does
equal number three in value and type
right they're both numbers they both
have the same value so this is a false
statement right they are both equal in
value and
type so this is a false statement
all right
last four here
is three greater than eight
no
right
now
the the exclamation point means not
that's what we were saying not it's not
x x is the variable here cool 3 is not
greater than 8 so that's false
is 3 less than 8
yes
yep three is less than eight beautiful
is three
greater than or equal to eight
no
three is not greater than or equal to
eight
is three less than or equal to eight
yeah
three is less than or equal to eight
cool
all right now
if these two broke your brain that's
okay i had to look at this like three or
four times myself before i start the
click
re-watch this part of the vod come back
to it
change up x to be a different number i
want everyone to come back to this
regardless if it clicked or not i want
you to come back to this as part of your
homework right and change x to eight
right change x to eight
right
go through it again
and the cool thing is you all could have
been cheating this whole time
right you could have been cheating this
whole time
open up your inspector
go to your console
right and then just do
let x equal three
right and then you can do like hey does
x not equal
eight
and it'll give you the answers right
there
right use your console as a place to
execute your javascript for now right
you all the things that you're thinking
about you can come in here and just play
with you can throw them in there see if
it's true false play with a lot of other
stuff in here too
yep
cool
alrighty
we're going to come back we're going to
look through more conditional syntax
and then we are going to see this
conditional syntax in play in our class
weekend or boring day
we're going to review that last piece we
wanted to make sure that it worked with
any casing lowercase uppercase and so
we're going to go over that together
we're going to go through more
conditional logic together but before
that we have to take a break if you're
new around here we like to be healthy we
like to take our our
our idea of going through a boot camp as
a marathon not a sprint and so if you're
able get up walk around
please look at something that's not your
scream for at least 20 seconds look out
something that's far in the distance if
you can
right let your eyes focus on something
else grab some water
hydrate
right and we'll be back in five
if you're watching us on youtube
hey go ahead and give us a like please
subscribe if you haven't already
helps us out helps more folks find the
boot camp and not to spay
pay tens of thousands of dollars to get
the same material
alrighty folks five minutes
see then
he's
free free
oh i was saying
thanks for the engagement uh hashtag
no clothes
[Laughter]
give bob close what's pretty funny
merry mouse hey thank you for the five
gifts it subs
hope you're doing well
thank you for being here
so many folks ordering dominoes right
now i
i saw to see
no i do jr you know i do
uh was it my birthday it was somebody in
uh chat
uh
liking on the name
there you go a miracle there you go it
was a miracle's birthday so i swapped
over to the birthday screen
they're they're spending their birthday
with us
if domino's wants to make you ceo what
would you do
i have a ten point plan
uh to to get dominoes everywhere
domino's has one of the
best tech teams actually they have like
a really good strong like engineering
team that's done a lot of stuff like i
joke around about dominoes but i'm not
joking around dominoes like they they
have like a really strong tech team
they've innovated in a lot of really
cool ways like pizza tracker
like pizza tracker is like revolutionary
they had pizza tracker before any of
these other companies had ways of like
tracking like if your food was on the
way or done yet like we look at like
uber and you realize like that started
with dominoes
right like
better routing like all this stuff is
like domino's has serious tech behind
them and they've led the way
and so yeah we like to we like to talk
about it but they they have one of the
best tech teams out there
get bob a domino shirt hey if domino
sent me a shirt
he'd wear it all the time they would
have free advertising for the the rest
of the rest of our days here
just saying
they have a patent on the dominus
tracker that's funny
that's pretty cool i mean it makes sense
all right folks come on back come on
back you had a good break
alrighty
cool let's chill the music
all right so we looked at our
conditional right we looked at we know
how to do comparison we know how to do
greater than less than equals not equals
beautiful so let's actually start
applying this to our conditionals right
and so the way a conditional works is if
whatever is inside the parentheses
evaluates the true then we do what is
inside the curly braces
all right so
if we look at it here
not only is it if
right but there's also else if and
else's so ifs are the first thing to run
and if for any reason what was inside
the parentheses is false
then we move on to the else if
and you can actually have as many else
ifs as you want right so you'll go if
if it's false you'll move on to the else
if
right if it's if it's false you'll move
on to the next else if the next else if
the next else if you have as many as you
want and then
if you want you don't have to have it
but you can have an else
right you don't have to have it that's
something that has to always be there
but if you have an else
and everything above it
right everything else above it was false
then the else automatically runs
right it just automatically runs it
doesn't need to check anything it just
runs
where would someone use a ton of elsifs
so there are actually things in
javascript that make conditional syntax
easier switches and things like that but
we've we saw some good examples we
wanted to figure out what day of the
week it was right we could use a
conditional um you want to figure out
your your horoscope you could use a
conditional right there's a lot of times
where you have to make decisions based
on information that's coming in right
rock paper scissors all these things
there are times you have to make
decisions right
based off of stuff that's coming in
and that's what you use the conditional
for
thank you for the tier three i
appreciate that
cool
let's take a look at a real one here so
we saw kant's pizza what what does const
mean again we we kind of hinted at this
last class what does const mean again
kant's pizza what does that mean
yeah it's a variable that will not be
reassigned
right it's a variable that will not be
reassigned you can't reassign it right
and so since our pizza choices will
never change we make pizza accounts
because it will always be
dominoes
all right now
we look at this conditional and we say
does pizza equal papa john's
no
it never will be right it never will be
and so since this is false
we go to our elsif
right now in this case
does pizza equal domino's yes our
variable of pizza is equal to dominoes
so since this is true
we
do what's inside the curly braces and in
the console we would see
all aboard the train to flavor town
now
does our else ever run
no it will never run because
we
had a true statement here so the else
never got a chance to run now
papa john's been doing some stuff
on thursday
i'm launching my campaign
to defeat
papa john's that's all i'm going to say
so i'm going to say for right now
so i'm going to say come back thursday
if you want to participate in the
campaign
to beat papa john's i see a lot of
people saying finally
i'm right there with you
i'm excited yes
thursday
we go to war
i'm coming for you but we i don't wanna
i don't wanna i don't wanna say too much
don't wanna say too much
come back thursday
alrighty
i say that there is a
there's a
danger right there's a danger
right there's a danger of assignment
versus comparison
what does that mean
how could i get in trouble yeah it's the
one equal sign versus two or three if i
ever use one equal sign like if i'm in
here and i used one equal sign instead
of two or three that would try and do
reassignment right you always have to
have two or three equal signs when
you're trying to compare stuff so if you
accidentally ever just do one equal sign
inside of your ifs or else if you're
going to actually reassign your variable
right there right and so that's
something you can run into because that
actually might wind up being a truthy or
truthful statement right so even though
you're trying to do comparison if you
did one it would be reassignment and
you're going to run into some issues
so be careful when you're using your
elsif's and your ifs make sure you're
using two or three equal signs one will
always be assignment or reassignment
cool
uh we can do multiple conditions right
we can check for for two things at the
same time so if your name is leon
and your status equals ballin
you have to do what's inside the curly
braces right and so we would go to big
cam here
and give you a wink
and then we go back
it's like got you
got another wink
let me put our glasses back on let me go
back to the game
there we go all right because name was
leon
and status equals ballin and so since
both of those are true statements
remember when you have the ampersand the
double ampersand right it means and both
cases must be true and since both cases
are true
you get a wink at the camera
right there you go
you can clip it if you want to keep it
for for longer
alrighty
we saw and
we could also do or
right
[Laughter]
this way you all cat said stop i'm
blushing all right you can go ahead and
blush
all right
or
right you can do one or the other
right with and both cases have to be
true only fans sneak peek exactly so i'm
telling you the the content you're
missing out on by not getting to a
million channel points
is wild i can't wait i've been thinking
about like angles and outfits and like i
i looked at inflatable hot tubs like i'm
ready i just need one of y'all to hit
the million channel points that's all i
need but you got to do it
all right
i got i got better lighting like i'm
ready i'm ready
all right
we saw and which was for both must be
true
right
but or just one has to be true so i can
say day equals saturday or day equals
sunday as long as one of those was true
then we would do it's the weekend
let's go ahead and take a look at this
class weekend or boring day we did most
of the code together
but there was one
right there was one really important
thing that i wanted to do which was make
it work with uppercase and lowercase
letters let's take a look
so if you need the starter code for
today uh you can find all the starter
code in our
in our discord you can do exclamation
point discord here in chat leonel.com
discord you agree to the rules and then
you'll see a follow-on materials channel
where you can always download the
material also just as another reminder
we had a lot of new folks joining the
discord recently uh you have to not only
agree to rules but you also want to make
sure you've clicked on the emojis and
the join 100 devs channel if you don't
click those emojis you don't get access
to all the 100 devs content so make sure
you click on those so you get access to
all the channels
all right
so i think i missed uh a fiver
honest hey jonas thank you for the 5k
that subs i appreciate that thank you
for being here
cool
truly gifted uh sub to nightbot
thank you for gifting this up the
nightbot i wonder if that was random or
if you did that on purpose
if you did if it was random i feel bad
for the person that didn't get it but if
you did over was that's pretty funny
nightbot's a bot that runs in chat that
does all the commands
all right
so we're going to look at this
class weekender boring i'm going to open
up the html i'm going to open up the
javascript
and
here we have the normal code that we had
already so i'm going to open this in the
browser
and i'm going to be a little bit bigger
and so we can put in the day of the week
so let's put in tuesday
right and check it
oh no
that's inspect
oh it's console logging
we didn't put in the dom yet so you can
see it you can see that we have class
all right we have we have class
you see that i keep clicking it and it
keeps going up
right if i however put in tuesday
i get boring that's not right it's not
boring we got class tonight and it's
because the capital t
is not the same as the lowercase t and
so i asked you to fix that as part of
the homework so let's take a look at our
code let's see what's going on and let's
see if we can fix this
all right
if we looked
we saw that we had two things here we
had our lovely input
right where we're putting the day of the
week and we can see that it has the id
of day
and we also have the button that we're
clicking on that has the id of check
right it's important we're going to use
these ids so we can place our event
listeners and also grab stuff out of
that input so the input has the id of
day
and the button has the id of check let's
look at our javascript
all right
document
that means we're going to go look
at the rendering of the html and the css
right we're gonna go look remember when
we when we when we open up our browser
right when we open up our browser and we
see all the stuff that we see
that's not actually
our html it's not actually our css it's
the rendering of that html and css and
the cool thing about this rendering this
dom
is that what can mess with it what can
mess with this rendering
javascript exactly javascript can come
in here and do whatever the heck it
wants to this render
right
but as soon as i refresh what happens
as soon as i refresh what happens
it all goes away when we do the refresh
we reread our html we re-read our css we
repaint this picture that we call the
dom
and then javascript can come in and mess
with it again
cool
so
if we look here we're saying hey go to
that dom thing
and in it
find something that has the id of check
what had the id of check
i had the idea of check
yeah
the button that we're gonna click on had
that id right if we look
button has the id of check great and so
what we're doing
is we are looking
right we're looking in that render for
the thing that had the idea of check and
then we're putting a what on it what are
we putting on it we putting on that
button
we're putting on there
put a smurf exactly put a little smurf
on that button
a little smurf is sitting on that button
all right a little smurf is sitting on
that button and it's waiting for a click
it's waiting it's waiting it's waiting
and we know that it's waiting for a
click
because we said add event listener
we could have given it some other things
to listen for
we could have told it to
right we could have told it to listen
for
a mouse enter
we could have told it to listen for a
double click we could have told it to
listen for a mouse leave right but we
told it hey smurf listen for a click
and when you hear a click
what set of instructions do you want us
to run like what do you what do you want
the what do you want javascript do you
want to what do you want the computer to
do what set of instructions
why do they call it a smurf i i made it
up they don't please don't think smurfs
are built into javascript
it's just an example i give there's no
smurfs built into javascript i just like
to call them smurfs because i it's
easier for me to sit there and think
that they're i don't know why
it's easier for me to sit there and
think that there are like little smurfs
sitting on all my buttons waiting to be
clicked so i just makes it work in my
brain better all right so when it hears
the click
when it hears the click
we got the check
uh oh hype train thank you for the hype
training folks i appreciate y'all thank
you for all the spending off of all of
uh jeff bezos's hard owner money
whenever i see jeff bezos on a yacht i'm
like i'm getting a piece of that so
thank you for the for the twitch primes
when you have prime you can you can sub
for free so i appreciate you spending
all bezos money makes you feel a bit
better
all right
so we got this check
we're listening for the click
and when we hear the check when we hear
the click we run the set of instructions
called check so here are the set of
instructions with the name of check
these two were tied right
you were tied
right
cool now
i heard the click i run check the very
first thing i do is i go back to that
dom the rendering
right
i find something that has the id of day
we have the idea of day
somebody said do functions run if you
don't put them in an event listener you
always have to tell functions to run
they won't run by themselves you can
either call the function and we're going
to learn more about functions soon you
can either like tell them to run
right or you can put them in an event
list and the run when you hear the event
we're going to cover more about
functions later today and next class for
sure so you gotta you gotta tell them to
run they just don't magically run by
themselves
you'll call it people calling that like
invoke them or run them yeah we'll get
there though
cool yeah it was the input the input had
the id of day if we look
input has the id of day beautiful so we
went into that dom thingy the rendering
we found the input and what do you think
value does it says
the value what do you think that does
what does that help us with
value
yeah
it helps us get the value out of the
input so whatever was in that input is
now pulled out now
normally
i would take the value out and poof it
would disappear into the ether right
like i would grab the value and poof it
would disappear
why does the value not poof and
disappear into the ether
why why did why didn't we grab it and
then immediately lose it
yeah
hey turn up look at this go
cause we're assigning it
today
right we're assigning it today so
whatever was in that input
right is now
sitting right is now sitting
inside the variable called day right so
whatever was in that input is now in our
bucket called day
right so we had a bucket
called day
and if in my input
i had tuesday
right and in my input i had tuesday and
i clicked i got the value out of that
input i stored it in the day bucket that
means sitting inside of day
would be string
tuesday
right we got the value
out of the input
right we got the value out of the input
and we stored it in the bucket called
day
where does value come from it's built
into javascript
dot value is built into javascript add
event listener query selector all these
things are built into javascript so that
we don't have to figure out how to do
them ourselves
imagine if you had to figure out how to
listen for clicks in the browser
right this is what ad event listener is
doing imagine if you had to code that
from scratch
imagine if you had to write the code to
like peer into the dom imagine if you
had to write the code that enabled you
to pull stuff out of inputs
it would just take forever right so one
of the reasons why we use javascript
is so much of this stuff
has already been done for us
we sit on top of the shoulders of giants
that have gone through the muck to build
all this stuff out for us
and that's why it's a little bit higher
level it's a higher level language a lot
of this stuff has already been written
for us so that we don't have to
right that's the beauty of javascript
and so in the beginning
we talked about this idea of i'm lost i
don't get what's going on well it's
because you didn't learn these words yet
right and there's no way you could have
known these words until we go over them
right and so the idea being here is that
when we use javascript we get a lot of
stuff that's built in and early on one
of the probably the biggest things that
you're going to have trouble with is
saying hmm
what is built in
right and what is not built in
like what is built in and what is not
built in that's one of the hardest
things kind of early on that's why i
asked you to play
right so i asked you to take this break
it rebuild it delete it do it over and
over and over again
right
the mdn has a list of all the built-in
stuff but we're gonna see it together
over and over again right this is class
two we're gonna have
10 15 20 more classes on javascript
right
and we're going to see these pieces over
and over again but you have to do your
part you have to play you have to delete
it all and type a bell back out you have
to delete it all and then delete it all
again
right and so you got to make sure you
keep playing you keep doing right
and as you do that you'll start to
realize huh that's what i could change
and i couldn't change this or actually i
know that that that's something i wrote
and that's not something that comes into
javascript but you have to be willing to
type it all out delete that whole thing
type it all out again delete it do that
whole thing over and over again
it's the only way it sticks
because there's so many new words so
many new bits of terminology that you
can't be expected to just like see it
and get it you gotta play with it
cool
so we got the value of tuesday
out of the input
all right so now
inside of day we are holding
tuesday
so does day equal tuesday
yeah
day equals tuesday in this instance and
so since this is an or we don't even
really need to check the other side
right we already know when it's or only
one has to be true right like this side
had to be true or this side had to be
true but since we already know something
is true
we can go ahead and console.log you have
class
now the problem is
if we change this to
uppercase tuesday
it won't work
right we've pulled
tuesday out of the input
we stored it in our variable of day
all right
and now when we go and compare day to
lower case tuesday they are different
day right now is the same thing as
uppercase tuesday and so uppercase
tuesday is not equal to lowercase
tuesday
right
so how do we
make sure that we don't have to worry
about casing and run into the problem
that we're running into right now
yeah we could we could do this to lower
case
boom
two lower
case
beautiful let's try it out now
let's save it
let's
refresh great it's saying you have class
right
you have class
it noticed that even though the t was
capitalized we can do lowercase t as
well we still get you have class right
and so what this right here
this two lower class
is something that is built into
javascript
to take all your letters and make them
lower case
you didn't have to code it you could
have coded it right you could have coded
a function or sets of instructions that
took your word and made all the letters
lowercase
but it is built in to javascript
eventually we're going to call these
things like methods or functions that
are built in right but right now
two lower cases saying hey whatever you
got out of this document right whatever
the value was
make it all lowercase
right no matter what we got out of the
value it is now all lowercase right and
then we can do our comparison is it
tuesday or thursday is it saturday or
sunday and if it's not tuesday thursday
saturday or sunday
we get boring
cool
now a lot of people are saying leon why
const
will day
ever be reassigned here's a really this
is like this is like a next level
question here
will day ever be reassigned
nope now some people were saying leon
but if i keep re-running the function
it's gonna be day could be different
things it could be tuesday it could be
saturday but look
that's inside this function though every
single time you click you're running
these sets of instructions again
there are different versions of the same
thing so this day never gets reassigned
you just assign it for the first time
whenever you click
i know it's a little it's a little lie
it's a little too much for right now
but there's the day is not really being
reassigned it's just that you're running
the set of instructions again
right
it's just that you're re-running the set
of instructions over and over again
you're not really reassigning something
you're just reassigning those you're
just redoing those sets of instructions
yeah like resets it runs again yeah
cool
all righty
feeling good about this one
keep pushing keep pushing
yeah some folks are throwing out this
word scope we'll get the scope later on
but i came across it in your reading
yeah
oh we got a posture check
daddy's home 420 thank you for the
posture check
that's it right
i got a i got a foot rest now so i gotta
make sure i'm in my foot rest max in the
right spot thank you appreciate you
all right
let's move on
angry parent simulator
i'm about to show you a whole lot of
code
don't don't run away i'm going to show
you how i'm going to show you a lot of
code
all right let's take a look at this
angry parent simulator
all right i'm going to close all this
stuff up i'm going to open up the angry
parent simulator and open up the
javascript
and i'm going to open it in the browser
just to see it
i thought leon said pasta check
show me your pasta
is it angel hair
is that linguine
pasta track
alrighty let's put a name here let's put
bob's name in here
bob
bobber
boppity
bobson cool so bob bobber boppity-bopson
is bob's name
and so let's go ahead and yell
and we see bob bobber boppity-bopson
right so this is
i knew i knew when my friend was in
trouble growing up
i knew when like we when we re like when
we like
when we were like when we really [__]
up
like when we like really [__] up this
is how i knew
right
when
when the parents weren't just using
their middle name but they were using
their christian name too like
it was over we were cut i was going home
i was going to see him for a couple
weeks
so
this is an this is an ode
uh
to how you know you've done messed up
uh when when parents are calling not
only your middle name but also your
given name so let's go ahead and and and
look through how we could do this so
what we are doing here is we're putting
a
first middle
last middle and last name into different
inputs and when i click yell
i'm pulling
a value from each of those inputs
that is then being put
into the dom
right
you thought his name was robert no his
name's not robert his name is bob
well
and so what we're going to do is we're
going to figure out all right how do i
get something out of here
here
and then how do i put that
into the dom
right that's what we're going to look at
now
i'm going to show you a couple different
ways that this could be done
and so this is this is meant for us to
see stuff what i'm trying to do is i'm
trying to give you
lots of example code that you can then
come back and sample
right you can come back and sample this
bits of code the way i did stuff to use
in your projects going forward different
lego pieces that you can actually use
all right
if we look
here are all of our inputs
right
uh our first input has the idea first
name
our second input has the idea of first
middle
our third has the id of last middle and
then the last name has the idea of last
name
right and so we have all of these inputs
that all have their own ids that we can
use to pull the value out
right to pull the value out
cool
we also have the button
with the id of yell
right so the button with the id of yell
is the thing that we're going to
actually click
all right
we're going to actually click that
button
we're going to pull all the stuff out of
the inputs
all right
and then
we're going to place all that stuff into
the h2 that's the goal
right pull all the stuff out of it we
already saw how to get stuff out of the
input we're gonna pull all the stuff out
of all the different inputs
right
well different inputs and then put it
back into the dom let's take a look at
that
all right
i have my event listener i have my smurf
that is set up
my smurf is set up to listen for a click
on the yell button
right
so when i click on the button that has
the id of yell
i'm going to run
these sets of instructions
right so if we look
here's my function called run
or my set of instructions that i am
going to run
and so what i'm going to do
is i'm going to
grab the names out of every
input
right i'm going to grab the names out of
every input so here
i am grabbing the name
out of the first input
and i am setting it equal to
the variable called fname
then i'm going to grab the value out of
the second input and store it in the
variable fmid name
same thing for the third and the same
thing for the last i'm just going
through and pulling the values
out of the inputs and storing them in my
buckets or my variables
right so if i did this right
right if i did this right
i should now have four variables
holding each of the names
the last thing i have to do
right the last thing i have to do
is put those names
into the dom so here's a new way of
doing i'm going to actually comment out
this new way for a second
i want to show you the old way
here's the old way of taking each of
those names
and putting them into the dom right so
here if we look we're saying all right
go to the dom
find the thing that has the idea of
place tl if we look
this h2 has the idea of place to yell
this is where i'm gonna put
this stuff
right cool
and what am i gonna put in it i'm gonna
put some text inside of it that's what
inner text stands for inner text means
i'm going to put some text inside of it
so some text is going to go inside that
h2 and then i'm going to put all the
variables
right
and put all the variables
into that h2 some folks are saying
what's the difference between inner text
and inner html well text is just text
inner html means you can put like actual
html elements you can put like lis and
anchor tags and spans anything you want
in there but we're just doing what text
so here we go i'm gonna take the first
name
and then we're doing what's called
concatenation
concat nation what do you think i mean
by concat nation
what do you what do you think i mean by
concatenating what am i doing when i
when i'm concatenating i'm not saying
cat nation i'm not saying meow
concatenating
yeah you're putting it all together into
one big string like you're just adding
everything together it comes together as
one big string
and then that big string is what we're
putting into the dom and so if you look
we take the name and then we add empty
quotes
then we take the other name and we add
empty quotes
empty quotes the other name empty quotes
what am i doing there
why am i putting empty quotes in
yeah i'm adding spaces i want a space
between each name like if i look i i
don't want it to be like bob bobber i
want it to have spaces in between so
that's what the concatenation does
that's why i'm concatenating an empty
space
right i'm concatenating empty spaces so
i have spaces between this whole string
that's going into my h2 so that's the
old that's the old way of doing it
but now we have something called
template literals or template strings
which have kind of changed the game a
little bit
all right so same thing we're going to
go into the dom
we're going to find the thing that has
the idea of place to yell
we're going to put some text inside of
it but look
we start off with ticks
right we start off with ticks
and then we have some fancy stuff inside
those ticks
now ticks are this are a new way of
doing quotes basically you don't know
where a tick is a tick is on the tilde
key
so like right there above your tab
you have a key
that has a tilde on it and then the tick
is on that one right there for you
that's how you do ticks
right
on my kinesis my tick is at a very
different place then we have a tick
right so the tick opens
and the tick closes
now the cool thing is
the cool thing is
right
you can now plug in variables
using this new syntax if you're inside
of a tick
you can use this syntax
the bling
curly braces
with the variable inside and so now we
can plug in all of our variables
with the spaces already there
and this gets turned into one
string
so instead of having to do all these
plus signs
adding empty spaces
we start our string and close the string
with a tick
and then we can use this newer
template literal syntax this bling with
the curly braces to plug in our variable
names
pretty sweet
yeah
template literal exactly yeah and so
it's just a fancier way of doing it but
the cool thing is you don't have to do
all these plus signs any white space you
put in is there right so you have the
spaces you don't worry about it so
you're going to come across this
sometimes you're going to come across
this a lot in older code basis too
why the bling curly braces that's just
the syntax
that's the decision they chose for
inserting a variable into the template
string
that's all
cool
all right so
this is all fine and good but i want to
show you something else
i have some other cool code here i'm
just going to comment out our code up
here real quick we're not going to spend
too much time with this i want to just
show you something i think it's pretty
neat
um
i'm going to uncomment this code down
here
i'm going to save it
and i'm going to show you what this does
now
all right hold on
all right let's go back let's refresh
bob
bobber
boppity
bopston i'm gonna yell
son
all right that was fire i'm not gonna
lie
really proud of myself for that one
all right
so the cool thing is
uh we use some code
right that i found off the internets
to do speech synthesis
so built in
to the browser now is this ability to do
speech synthesis and so
what i was able to do is i was able to
grab this speech synthesis stuff
and uh plug in my code to make it spit
hot bars right
and now the cool thing is the question i
have to ask you
if i was to like delete all this do you
think i could type this out
like if i was just to delete this do you
think i could type this
and this line out
no
absolutely not i i do not have this
memorized this is not anything in my
brain i was just like i want to do this
very specific thing
i googled it and saw oh it's built into
the browsers nowadays it's a newer thing
that's built in that i can use but i
don't have this memorized this is not
something that's in my brain if i was to
delete this i would have no idea how to
start i would have to go back
find it on on on on the mdn and then use
it
right and so you're gonna push yourself
right you're going to push yourself so i
said you didn't anki it now i didn't end
it because i don't expect to really ever
use this this was for a very specific
project
i was building a
app
for
for something very specific there's a
game called overwatch that i play
and i noticed that i couldn't find a way
for folks that may be deaf to
like to to know
that something was about to happen in
the game
right
in the game there are these sounds that
you hear
and if you hear the sound you're about
to get shot in the face
right so if you hear it it's high noon
you're about to get shot in the face
right it's somebody's special move um
there are all these like sounds that
before you do your special move uh the
sounds play and i couldn't like figure
out how to like turn it on so i was like
like an accessibility feature for it so
i was like wait let me let me see if i
could build something that could listen
for those sounds right and then like
flash a color on the screen
and and it worked
right it worked and so i was able to use
this speech synthesis to not only say
stuff but to also listen for stuff and
it was just a it's just an idea that
popped in my brain and i was able to do
it right and so as you start to learn
code right as you start to learn more
you're gonna be able to just like google
stuff and this took me like three
seconds right to be like oh there's
speech synthesis and i can make it say
stuff can i also make it listen right
and so you'll notice there's nothing
really new here
i
i set up the speech synthesis i'm saying
hey like
browser i have the speech synthesis set
up and then i just have my normal click
event
i'm getting all my stuff from the dom
just like normal right
except i put it into a variable
right instead of instead of i have all
my stuff in a variable right then a
variable and instead of just plugging
that variable into the dom
i also pass that variable
into this speech synthesis stuff
and that's what makes it say it so i
didn't code this i just googled it
copied those three lines of code and
boom it's over right it works now if i
was delete this i would have no idea
what the heck's going on
and i i say this and i mentioned this
because you have to free yourself right
from this idea that like
javascript developers have all this
stuff memorized and like we can code it
all from scratch no we're gonna use the
mdn
we're gonna google it when we have to
we're gonna copy and paste the pieces
that we need and we make it work we get
the job done right but it's not
something i'm just not sitting here like
for like 10 hours a day like this
just clicking clack
i'm not
got it yep hacked my frame yep carry the
carry to five yep
cool we're doing good we're doing good
yep okay it's not that for 10 hours
right it's not that
here's what coating looks like for 10
hours a day
i wonder
if someone has never my coffee break
go play with my dog for a few minutes
i'll be back
then you come back
and it's like hmm
i wonder
if i could make my computer talk
okay let's figure that out
hey bob do you know how to make the
computer talk no all right cool
let's go over here
google make
browser
talk
oh
use javascript to make your browser
speak that sounds dope
how can i make my web browser speak
programmatically let's start over and
start over there
oh
speech synthesis
speak
hmm too much text is there anybody
that's done it already
okay utterance
here you go
that works
so it looks like i can use this
and this
and
that should work so i would
copy that
and paste it in
maybe it works maybe it doesn't well i
didn't really like it let's go back and
look at that blog post real quick
hmm
okay they're using the same thing
new
speak
okay let me just copy that
let me paste it in and let me see if it
works
that right there folks
is programming
welcome
that's it that's what i that's what
that's what i do
like like 90 of my day is just that
i wonder if i can do it let me see if
somebody else has done it
let me ask other folks that may have
done it in the past
right it's it's not sitting there like
no first sometimes you get flow
sometimes you do get into a flow state
right you are figuring out but it's a
lot of trying to solve problems
that have probably already been solved
just in different contexts right and so
a lot early on
is about like recognizing different
building blocks different legos and
putting these different legos together
right it has nothing to do with
like
being good at javascript like i like i'm
building web applications i'm really not
reinventing the wheel
very often
right it's very rare that i'm like
reinvent the wheel i'm really doing
something i'm putting different building
blocks together i'm gluing a lot of
different things together i get really
good at the glue and the building but
it's rare that i have to like really
coat something custom i do maybe 10 of
my time right but i'm putting different
things together and so we're really good
lego players we're we're putting
different pieces together and so in the
beginning you don't have to stress
yourself out being like i don't
understand how i would code this from
scratch you're not going to specifically
in the beginning you're going to take
pieces and put them together and what
you have to be good at is finding those
pieces
and so what i have done
and what we're going to see
as we move into the next project
is over these last few examples i've
given you all the pieces or the building
blocks that you need and now it's your
job to take those building blocks and
arrange them in the way that solves your
problem
and all we're going to be doing over the
next couple weeks is adding more blocks
that we can use we got a long yellow one
we got a short red one we got a four by
eight like we're gonna have all these
different pieces that you're gonna have
to be able to think through and and put
together but that's our job in the
beginning we're just playing with legos
and that's why i really do emphasize
like you should be having fun with this
like it should be something that like
you're not letting the anxiety get to
you you're just playing with legos
you're playing with legos while riding a
roller coaster
have some [__] fun with it for real
right like you're on a roller coaster
playing with legos have some fun with it
who cares if you have to start over
again
rebuild a different lego set right have
fun with it build break don't let the
anxiety creep in
all right so i want to stop here we're
going to take our break
when we come back from a break we're
going to talk about pseudo code right
we're going to talk about how we can
talk about those different pieces in
plain language we're not going to get
technical we're just going to talk about
the things that we want to have happen
in our programs the order in which we
want them to happen right and we're
going to talk about that pseudo code and
then we're going to build a temperature
converter together so let's go ahead and
take our break uh please if you're able
get up move around walk around stretch
hydrate
and we'll be back in five we put five
minutes on the timer
all right see you soon
i love that too j-meg
they said i love how chat is slow shoes
everyone's on break exactly taking that
break
shadow that's it that's all you need
don't need more than that
unless you have problems that require
different tools but that should be
enough for pretty much everything
gw now we don't touch on jquery it's
kind of
not in vogue anymore we can do all that
cool stuff with just regular javascript
these days
that's cool squiddy
uh
my glasses do have a blue light filter
they do i don't know how much it works
in some conflicting stuff but i like
them
ah true occ we'll use mongodb exactly
back up pizza place get out of here it's
domino's or bust baby if domino's is
closed for some reason i'm just not
eating pizza that day get out of here
if bob came to life and offered you a
helping hand
in anything that you needed what would
it be
i would love if bob could walk the dogs
every once in a while
i think that would be really helpful
just be cool if they got like more more
walks you know and so if bob could do it
that'd be great
all right folks come on back come on
back
lots of fun stuff to get into
alrighty welcome back everyone
all right somebody said what about
semicolons with the newer versions of
like the the newer versions of
javascript you can omit them if you want
to you can actually do exclamation point
exclamation exclamation point semicolon
and you can read an article on it or we
should start saying bang semicolon now
right
oh
all right folks come on back come on
back let's go into this last bit
together
wait can you hear stuff coming from my
computer does that work
hold on
no right
all right cool
because like i could hear i could hear
the um
when the timer goes off there's like a
sound i could hear i just think my my
headphones were really loud
that's funny
all right let's talk about pseudocode
folks welcome back welcome back
so
pseudocode is what we're going to use
when we start trying to tackle
problems
right so we're going to use when we
start trying to tackle problems we're
going to approach our coding problems
in plain language before we ever even
think about
syntax all right before we even before
we ever even think
about syntax
right and so whenever i approach a new
challenge a new coding problem
i think through what i'm going to do in
plain language often i will talk to my
duck about it
and if my duck is off doing duck things
i'll talk to bob about it right and i
literally say out loud the steps i want
to do and then often like once that idea
solidifies right
once the idea solidifies then i actually
write it out so i write out what i'm
going to have happen
in just plain english before i actually
write out any code any syntax
if you can learn to do this skill well
it will be one of the most impactful
things on your career folks that write
good pseudo code write good code and so
you want to get better at this idea of
thinking through any challenge i don't
care how small it is you want to think
through the steps in plain language
before ever thinking about any code
too many folks at this stage dive right
into javascript they get lost they
forget some syntax and then
all right so you want to you want to
have a clear direction before going into
your code you can still be a baddie and
write bad code but you need some
direction right to be a baddie right and
so that's what pseudocode gives us it
gives us direction
this used to be one of my favorite
classes to teach in person so in person
i used to have my students build a robot
that would make peanut butter and jelly
sandwiches
except
i was the robot
and they had to write out pseudo code
that would enable me to eat a sandwich
it's actually really hard it's really
difficult i taught that class 40 50
times
and
i only ever ate a sandwich twice
and one of them
right one of them cheated
right so out of like 40 50 times i ran
that class
only i only ever ate a sandwich once
legitimately because it's really hard
you got to think about hold on i'm going
to do something real quick you ready
watch it slow i'm going to get big here
for you
ready
think about everything that just had to
happen
for that to work
right my left hand had to go reach out
for the mug i had to pick up the mug i
had to go until it hit my lips then i
had to tilt it then the drink had to
come out i had to go into my mouth i had
to tilt my head back a little bit so i
didn't die but all those things
imagine if you had to write the code for
that to work
right imagine if you had to break down
all these things because remember
a computer will do what you tell it to
do and so if you wanted a robot to do
everything i just did you would have to
write the code to make it happen and so
i always used to make my students write
out this code we didn't write it in
javascript so it actually wrote it in
pseudocode and i would give them a lot
of things like i was a robot that could
see colors shapes um they had to figure
out how to do movement things like that
right
and so
it actually takes a really long time to
break down all the steps it would take
to build a peanut butter jelly sandwich
to get me to eat it and to not die
everybody's like what how'd they cheat
how they cheat so
one team cheated
by using the stuff i just showed you in
the angry parent simulator
they wrote some code
that said
using the speech synthesis or something
similar to it back then
uh that said
well first they figured out how to make
me point and i'm gonna i'm giving a
little bit of my apologies this is
actually what happened not something i
would say without this happening
so they made me point at somebody on
their team
and then they programmed me to say make
me a sandwich b word
and then that person got up
made the peanut butter and jelly
sandwich they put it in my mouth they
like made my head chew and then they
like tilted my head back and and
helped me swallow it without dying
so did they actually program a robot
that made a peanut butter jelly sandwich
no but did they accomplish it they did
and whenever i taught that class going
forward i had to give a disclaimer that
you were not allowed to do that anymore
so it was brilliant
but it didn't solve the problem it was a
good loophole
so that's how they cheated
now for our pseudo code
i want to attempt to write some pseudo
code
for our
temperature converter so i'm going to
open up the temperature converter first
and then we're going to take some time
to think through some pseudo code
all right let me close this let me open
up temperature converter
temperature converter
html javascript you'll notice that
there's no javascript here
right what i want to be able to do
what i want to be able to do
is i want to be able to
enter in a value
right
have that value
be converted from celsius
to fahrenheit
right and then i want to see that value
in the dom
right so that's what i want for a
temperature converter i want something
that can convert a value from celsius to
fahrenheit
okay
now
i want you to take
two minutes
to think through the steps that have to
happen
for that conversion to happen
right so i want you to think through the
pseudocode don't think in terms of
javascript don't even think about in
terms of like the math to make this
happen i just want you to think through
the steps we're gonna have to do to get
some value
and
convert it
okay
all right so i'm gonna put two minutes
on the clock i want you to think through
your pseudocode and write out your
pseudocode in your main.js here
put two minutes on the clock
think through it and we're going to go
over it together i want you to make a
temperature converter celsius to
fahrenheit what are the steps that you
would need
in just plain language
that you would need
to make this work and then we're gonna
go over together two minutes
okay take two minutes
the steps i don't care about code you
don't have to code to do this what are
the steps you would need for any type of
conversion to happen
go to weather.com
nice one panda
wispy tv thank you for the engagement
folks are done that's all right
jim this is class 13 that's why
not class 12 wrong folder
all right give yourself about 35 more
seconds and then we're going to come
back and go over it together
that's pretty cool joy
a lot of folks coming in done that's
cool
have i met eric dr thomas in person no i
haven't yet i would love to though
all right folks come on back let's look
at this together
all right let's think in plain language
what we need to have happen to turn
celsius into fahrenheit
right so let's say we have
uh zero degrees celsius we want that to
be
32 degrees fahrenheit right that's the
celsius to fahrenheit conversion
so if i want to turn something from
celsius to fahrenheit what's the first
thing i need
if i want to turn something from celsius
to fahrenheit what's the first thing i
need
i need the value that's in celsius right
i need i need something in celsius like
i i need
the value that is in
let's say
cell
c
yes right i need the value that is in
celsius right
if i don't have it in celsius i can't do
anything right i need the value if i'm
going to convert something from celsius
to fahrenheit i need something in
celsius
right
i think we
don't don't big brain it
right don't big brain it don't be like
oh i got to get the input and then i
take the value out but no
i'm going to convert something from
celsius to fahrenheit i need something
in celsius great so i need the value
that is in celsius
once i have the value that's in celsius
what do i need to do
i need to convert it right i need to
convert it
convert
from
celsius
to
bear
in
height
oh sorry spelled it wrong
there you go i need this i need i need
to convert it from celsius to fahrenheit
right
all right so i got the value that was in
celsius
i'm going to convert the celsius into
fahrenheit and then once i have this new
value that's in fahrenheit what do i do
what do i need to do
yeah i need to like show it
show it boom there we go
so i need to like get the value that's
in celsius
i need to convert it from celsius to
fahrenheit
and then i need to like show it
now the cool thing is
we've done
all of these steps already so if you go
back and look at the examples we've done
today and on
thursday of last week we have done each
and every single one of these steps so
i'm gonna put five minutes on the timer
and i want you to try and build out this
actual conversion
right five minutes on the timer i want
you to try it because remember you're
not coding you're playing with legos
go and find the other legos
that enable you to pull something out to
get a value
find the lego that's going to enable you
to like actually
reassign a variable
find the lego that's going to actually
enable you to
put it back into the dom right see if
you can go back and find those pieces
and plug them in you're not coding
anything really from scratch you're
gonna have to find the formula but
there's nothing really from scratch here
go and find those pieces and plug them
in
i'm gonna put five minutes on the clock
here
and actually try and code this now if
you're saying leon i have no idea what
to do how do i do ah
play with legos
go look at other lego bricks
see if you can bring those legos to this
bit of code and see if you can do it
there's there's no wrong or right way to
do this you're just gonna go grab other
legos and use them that's it
try playing with legos
there's nothing in the html exactly
you're gonna have to go get those lego
pieces as well
you're gonna need an input you're gonna
need a button to click you're gonna need
a place to put it in the dom
we've seen all those pieces already
tonight
you got it i believe in you
you can't be lost you're on a roller
coaster you're in you're exactly where
you need to be you're on the seat you're
strapped in you're hurtling into
the unknown
but you're exactly where you need to be
you're not lost
play with some legos on the way down
this is a strange roller coaster i agree
we're trying to do actual code now we
did our pseudocode now let's try to do
some actual code
good morning happy tree
aaliyah
so hard to hear that but uh
future you will be way happier
usually hey glad to hear it
is that a play on musubi like the food
musube
means you're trying to do both you're
going to try and find it and then put it
in the right spot
yeah okay first i need an input then i
need a function to convert exactly
that's cool
mr bae i love it
that's cool brew
dab get out of here dab
[Music]
joshua's so hard but it pays the bills
does it not does it not
anything what if google foo found us the
code that already did it i mean in
practice that's a good idea but when
you're learning yeah let's try and use
the building blocks we already have
that's like that's like you don't want
to always go and get more bricks you
want to you want to play with the bricks
that you already have too
i can do this but i need more time
that's okay
all right get where you can
we're only going one way right now ivy
but if you want to take on that
challenge you can
i feel like i lost my bricks a sometimes
when you're on a roller coaster you drop
a few of them
i assigned a variable no idea what to do
now hey it's a good start
what am i having for dinner i don't know
yet
dominoes
vegan buffalo nugs there you go
all right folks
come on back
i know that's funny
good joshua joke all right folks come on
back let's take a look at this together
all right
come on back come on back let's take a
peek
alrighty so
like i said we're going to go and get
pieces from other stuff
uh so let's let's do our let's look at
the angry parents that's the angry
parent simulator this thing we looked at
most recently
let's go and take a look at that
i want to look at the html first
html has everything that i need here
right is there anything that i would
need extra that's not already here in
the in the um
anchor parent simulator no we got the
form we got the button and we got the
place to put it so i'm just going to
copy this
and when i come to our temperature
converter i'm just going to paste it
except i don't need all of them i just
need one right so
i'm going to give this the label of
celsius so see
yes there we go
and um we'll give it the id name of
celsius as well
i'm gonna give it the idea of cell
and
i'm just gonna put in here cell cs
value cool
that's our form right
we we grab make sure that celsius
it's an input that has the idea of cell
all right id of cell
and um we have a button
i'm going to change this button to oh
we're going to keep it yell who cares
and then i have h2 place dl
if the screen's blurry that's you got to
make sure that you use the right
settings go ahead and do the quality
settings you can change it to what you
want uh you can also refresh sometimes
that helps
no
cool all right so now we got everything
we need we got a place to put the
celsius value we got the button the
click that will help us with the
conversion
and
i have a place to like put the converted
value in
cool
that's kind of all i'm going to need for
the for for this to work because i'm
gonna need to get a value i'm gonna need
to convert it and i'm gonna need to show
it so i'm actually gonna go back and
look at the angry parent simulator again
i'm gonna look at the javascript this
time
and all right here's what i need right
like i need this
event listener
i want to copy that that's that's how
i'm going to
kick all this stuff off
right
and
i'm going to need a function
but
what am i trying to do here i'm not
trying to run i'm not trying to run i
wanna this this this application is
doing something
all right
this application is doing something yeah
i'm converting right so maybe i'm going
to call it convert
right so instead of run i'm going to
call it convert just uh
i don't know make it a little bit more
easy to read and then i need this run
here right like this run
i'm going to copy this
but i don't actually need all this stuff
so i'm gonna paste it
and
i'm gonna get rid of pretty much
everything that's in here um
boom all right actually let's just get
rid of everything at first
all right so i just have that place for
my function right
all right it's just it's just taken from
what we've already seen
right
since i'm calling it convert what do i
have to change
what do i have to change if i'm calling
it convert would i have to change
i gotta change the name i gotta change
this from run
to convert right so that way they match
right because
the name of the function should match
the function that you're calling or
running right that's the link there
and so we're gonna do is we're gonna
listen for a click on yell when we here
we're gonna run
these sets of instructions and the cool
thing is
we have our
instructions here that came from our
pseudo code that can kind of like plop
in and i'm not starting from scratch
right like i was going to follow my
instructions that i got from my pseudo
code
and so this is the beauty of pseudo code
early on your pseudo code can be turned
into your comments so these remember
these are called comments the computer
won't read them they're just there for
you and other developers that you're
working with and so if you write good
pseudo code you wind up with good
comments
later on we'll talk about like clean
code and best practice and all that crap
but for now i love comments in my code
because it helps me stay on track on the
things i said i was going to do
all right
i need the value that is in celsius
right
i need the value that is in celsius so
i need to get the value from the input
have we seen a way to get a value out of
an input before
yeah we've seen that like a dozen times
already
uh let's just grab one here yoink
copy all right boom
get the value out of an input
um but our input is not first name what
was our input
our input had the id of cell
let's go back let's change this from
first name to
so
beautiful
so now i'm getting the value out of cell
and storing it in a variable called
fname
what should i call this variable would
be a better thing to call this variable
temp yeah i like that
like temp short for temperature right
that's the temp that we got
so we got the value
out of celsius and we stored it in temp
what do we need to do at temp now
gotta do some quick match right we gotta
convert it the temperature from celsius
to fair in height
we gotta do some math so i'm gonna i'm
just gonna do reassignment right i'm
gonna set temp to be equal to
right wait a minute
can i do this
can i reassign tep to be something else
why not why can't i reassign it
const
let's change that to let and let's go am
i right let's go all right so temp
all right temp
is now able to be reassigned because
it's no longer cons so we're going to do
temp and we'll do our quick math so
we'll do temp equals temp
and i see some folks throwing in i'm
going to trust you all
temp times 9 divided by 5. i don't even
know this works i'm just trusting y'all
plus 32.
great that was that was the quick maths
all right so we got the value out of the
input
we converted the value from celsius to
fahrenheit
what's the last thing we have to do
oh our studio already says it show it
we've already seen how to put stuff into
the dom already let's go back let's look
at angry parent simulator
um inner text document place dl inner
text equals
and copy that
boom
and
instead of it just being equal to what
what am i going to set this equal to
temp yeah that's our variable all right
let's see if this wild thing works
all right let's make a little bit bigger
all right our celsius value let's do
zero
hit yell
boom 32 that works nice uh let's do a
hundred that should be 112.
sorry 212.
boom working first try
let's go
we're a team i loved it
all right now
we're gonna walk through it and talk
through all the things but did i use
anything that we had not seen before we
have seen every single bit of this
already first
thank you zaku thank you
we've seen every single bit of this
except for like the math right but like
you could have just done anything you
could have just added five to it to see
if it works right like if you didn't do
this math the first thing you could have
done is like just plus five
right and then if you're if you're just
adding five to numbers the only thing
you'd have to come back and fix is the
math so a lot of times if i know i'm
gonna have to go and find something else
i'll just put a placeholder in
and then come back and actually do the
math later on or whatever else i need
later on right so you didn't have to
start with the exact conversion math you
could have just made something up for
now to get the bulk of the problem
working and then just come back and fix
it but everything i literally copy and
paste it from other stuff that we've
already done i grabbed the form i
grabbed the button i grabbed the h2
right
i grabbed my event listener i grabbed my
sets of instructions or my function i
grabbed how to get the value out of the
dom i grabbed how to do reassignment i
grabbed how to put stuff back into the
dom so you have all of these
building blocks
right
we have all these building blocks
right that if you commit
to putting these blocks into memory
and commit to playing with them deleting
them re-combining them in different ways
you can do
a lot of really cool stuff already
but it starts with your pseudo code
before you do any other homework that's
coding related in this program before
you write any other programs always
write your pseudo code
this would have been way harder if we
did not write any pseudo code
i like to play a game with myself
right i like to play a game every once
in a while if i'm bored the game i play
is pseudocode i know it sounds silly but
it's true when i was in the t i would
play pseudocode i was like what would i
need to do
right what would i need to do
right
to flip that book upside down and the
person not realize it
and i would sit there like all right
first
first i gotta cause a distraction
then
i gotta i gotta kick them in the shin
right like and you just you just think
through it right
but that's the idea the idea is that
this pseudo code will change the game
before you do any coding projects please
think through
your pseudo code
i say one more time
i've shown you a lot of code
showing a lot of building blocks lots of
legos
you have to in between classes
in between getting your homework done
you have to play
with the legos none of this will ever
click none of this will ever sink in
unless you try to build stuff
right we saw some amazing projects from
folks that just said i wonder if i could
make a nail polish picker
i i wonder if i could
right do a mortal kombat changer right
it starts with a what if it starts with
the playing it starts with the having
fun we are all on a roller coaster
playing with legos have some fun with it
and when you get stuck
ask
good questions on discord
all right
good question discord i don't understand
how this event listener works i i i
don't get why my event listener's not
working here's my code here's what i'm
doing it's not happening
right
play and if you get stuck
ask questions
alrighty
really important question
you'll get all my code at the end of end
of class of course i will share my
solutions so if you need the code you'll
get it
uh what is the best tv show of all time
go ahead and throw your answers in chat
so far you are all wrong
i'm seeing lost i'm seeing euphoria i'm
seeing the wire i'm seeing brooklyn
nine-nine
little britain that's a good one
dragon ball z seinfeld fringe no wrong
wrong wrong rick and morty wrong how
much mother wrong
community wrong still pierce or wrong
firefly wrong
all great shows breaking bad wrong game
of thrones definitely wrong
soft bark wrong if you drama wrong
succession wrong
all right you're all kind of just
steaming out here uh the correct answer
is
the bachelor
the best television of all time
is hands down the bachelor
now
in honor of bachelor nation
bachelor nation uh the rest of our
examples this evening
will all be bachelor's related in an
attempt to
sway you
into following the best tv show of all
time
so
let's go ahead and do some more code
and i'm going to ask you to open up the
starter code that is labeled
bachelor so let's go ahead and i'm going
to close all this stuff that we're doing
here all this inferior code and we're
going to open up bachelor code
so
in uh bachelor code you're going to see
that there are three folders
all right
we lost some viewers it's all right
they'll come back soon enough
all right
we have three different folders
the first folder we're going to open up
and do that one first so there's an
index.html
there's a javascript file so let's go
ahead and open up
this this html file and
here you'll notice
that we have contestants from
juan pablo season of the bachelor now
juan pablo season of the bachelor is
hands down one of the greatest
the greatest runs of television ever
made
right it is hands down the most
controversial season of the bachelor and
it is the most controversial season of
the bachelor for one very particular
reason
anybody know why juan pablo season
uh was one of the most controversial
seasons not only of of the bachelor
history but of all pelvis all cinematic
and television history of all time
some of you got it uh it is one of the
greatest runs of television of all time
uh because in the end
he did not propose
he gave nikki the rose and it was kind
of like we could still do this thing if
you want
but we ain't getting married yet it blew
everyone's mind it was it was it was it
was a it was the the the travesty of all
travesties and it made for one of the
greatest buildups of all television
history so
here we have three contestants
on juan pablo season of the bachelor we
have claire who kind of went on to
become a bachelorette but had the own
controversy because
she like met her boo like first class
and i mean first first class uh first
first episode and like didn't want to do
the rest of the season so that was
interesting uh nikki who ultimately won
juan pablo season a bachelor pediatric
nurse very interesting person um but
didn't get the proposal
and then we have charlene
the second love of my life my wife is
aware of this it's my wife and then it's
charlene we're cool with it it's okay uh
and so we had all these individuals that
were on juan pablo season of the
bachelor right
but nikki was the only one
right was the only one that got the rose
so what i want to happen
right
what i want to have happen
is when you click on final rows
i want claire to go away and i
unfortunately want charlene to go away
and i only want nikki to be left
right
to be left
on the page because she is the only one
that got the final rose so if we look at
our code this evening
you will see that there are three images
one for claire
one for nikki and one for charlene
and in our javascript we have some code
for you to fill in
where you see insert code i need you to
actually insert some code and what
should happen is when you click final
rows claire goes away unfortunately
charlene goes away and we're left with
just nikki so i'm gonna put two quick
minutes on the clock here and i want you
to try your best two minutes
and then we'll go over it together
all right have at it
excuse
me didn't even open vs code yet
i nominate leon for the batch i think my
wife would have a an issue with it
we could try though we'll see what
happens
nikki was the one in the middle
the pediatric nurse
laughs
all right folks minute left minute left
and we're gonna go over it
do you listen to charlene's podcast
of course i mean i listened i was i
followed their blog for the longest time
until they kind of like stopped it it
was a great read so charlene used to
recap all of bachelor nation stuff uh it
was always it's something i looked
forward to a lot
30 seconds left
getting a lot of duns
seen a lot of fresh trey
nice
all right folks let's take a look at
this together
all right
so
when we click on
the h1 that has the idea final rows
we want claire and charlene to go away
but nikki should stay so we notice that
the h1 has the idea final rows so what
do we have to do here this is an event
listener so what do we have to put in
here
what what goes in this insert code here
what goes in there
yeah the name of the set of instructions
the name of that function is called hide
right we can see that it's called hide
we want to run hide when they click on
that final rows
and the set of instructions
has two things that it wants it to do
we want to
style display none
so the cool thing here is that you can
look at something in the dom
and then you can change its style like
the css right you can change the css to
be display none remember when you
display none something it removes it
from the dom right it's no longer in the
dom you can't see it it's not there it's
not taking up space so
if we look
nicky sorry nikki has an idea of nikki
so we'll stay away from that but idea of
claire and idea of charlene should be
all we need so if we go in
we say all right i want the id of claire
and then i want the id of charlene
all right so what should happen now is
when
we click on the final rows
claire should be set to display none
and charlene should be set to display
none i can't bring myself to do it
let's just comment that line out
and then let's go back let's refresh
click on final rows boom claire went
away
right claire went away but uh nikki and
charlene stayed right if we refresh the
dom gets repainted
right the dom gets repainted
right
you click on final rows boom claire goes
away nikki charlene are left
cool and
just for folks that need the uh the code
afterwards i'll get rid of my comment
alrighty
let's take a look at the next one
all right so bachelor code number two
i'm going to open up the html again i'm
going to open up the javascript again
and if we look i'm going to open this in
the browser
uh you have the choice
over who the next bachelorette should
have been
it was very clear that charlene should
have been the next bachelorette it
didn't happen claire technically got
their chance later on and then andy was
the next bachelorette um
assistant district attorney from atlanta
like it was it was an okay season but
they they made the wrong decision at the
end right they just made like one of the
worst
pics
in bachelor history right so what i want
you to be able to do
is
to choose who the next bachelorette
should have been when you click on andy
i want andy's photo to show up right
when you click on claire i want claire's
photo to show up
right you click on charlene which you
should you want charlene's photo to show
up so i want you to be able to pick who
the next bachelorette should have been
if we notice
there's the text that we're clicking on
andy next clairneck charlene next are
the ids and then there are the images
down here that we can't see at the
beginning
so what i want you to do
is i want you to take a few minutes
and see if you can get
andy's photo to show up claire's photo
to show up and charlene's photo to show
up when you click on them i'm gonna go
ahead and put another
i know this will be quick just two
minutes and we're gonna go over it
together so i don't expect you to finish
it in two minutes but go ahead and try
remember the goal is when you click on
andy you see their photo if you click on
claire you see their photo you click on
charlie and you see their photo
go ahead and give it a shot
two minutes we're gonna go over it
together
zuma make sure you saved and that you
refreshed
no megan i was in in andy's season i was
a fan of nick
and i think she made the wrong decision
in the end of that season
alrighty
what do you think about lindsay a few
years ago
so i've i i have trouble visualizing
people's faces
i'm blanking on their season
i'll think once i see a picture of them
i'll be able to put it two and two
are you so i always wait until seasons
are done before i watch any of them and
i normally give them a little bit of
time i used to watch in the moment and
kind of like be really into like the
blogs and stuff like that but now i kind
of wait until the end just for for
time's sake you watch bachelor in
paradise bathroom paradise is the best
version of the
bachelor although the little unknown
bachelor winter games was interesting
but bachelor in paradise is the
best all right folks come on back come
on back
let's take a look at this together
alrighty so
we want to be able to click on these
names
right the andy the claire the charlene
and see some photos
why
are there no photos when the page loads
why can't i see
the photos when the page loads
yeah if we look look
all the images
have a class
of hidden
where can i check to see more about this
class of hidden
where can i go to see this class of
hidden yeah let's take a look at the css
boom all right so in the css we have
this class of
hidden
right so it's this class
right it's this class that is removing
or doing the display nut
so
if we got rid of
the class
right
right if we got rid of the class
we should be able to see the photos
right
if we look we see that they all have
hidden by default
so we are able to get rid of that class
then we should probably be able to see
the photo so let's take a look
let's look at andy's first so
here i did something where where were
variables this is like the first time we
get to see a variable be useful
so here i did document.queryselectorandy
so i am looking at
the html and i'm grabbing this image
right i'm selecting the image from the
dom
and i'm saying
query document.queryselector andy and
i'm storing it in the variable andy
why the heck would i do that why would i
like look in the dom find the image and
store it as a variable
why would i do that
yeah
so i can reuse it over and over and over
again without having to say
document.querysectorandy document that
queryselectorandy.comcreatorsector.nd
right i can go down here and i can just
say
andy
right if i just say andy down here what
i'm really saying is go into the
document find the image that has the
idea of andy right but i'm just storing
it in this variable called andy so that
my code looks way cleaner down here
right when we talked about kind of being
dry do not repeat yourself and so this
cuts down on me having to say
document.queryselector over and over and
over and over again i just stored it in
a variable called andy
right
all right so let's let's click on andy
so document that query selector andy
next that's the text remember if we look
here is the text of andy next right so
that's the text that we're clicking on
so here's here's the text we're going to
click on it we have an event listener
and that event listener should call what
function
what function should this call what's
the name of the function
yeah if we look the name of the function
is called andy next but we should type
in
andy
next
beautiful andy next all right now
when
when we click on the text and we run
that function andy next we just clicked
on andy what do we want to do to clear
what do we want to declare if we're
clicking on andy should claire be
visible
no
so how can we make sure
that
claire
is not visible
what what what class can we give them
yeah we can add that hidden class
right we can add the hidden class and
the reason why we want to make sure that
we add the hidden class to claire
and make sure we want to add it to
charlene
is because we don't know
if claire charlene are already visible
right we could be somewhere else in our
code where we had just clicked on claire
and claire was visible right so we want
to make sure if we're clicking on andy
we want to be super clear that claire is
gone
and charlene is gone
right
but what do we want to make sure with
with andy what do we want to do to andy
what are we going to toggle
hidden
so you're like leon what the heck is all
this mean
what does all this mean
well
remember with javascript we can mess
with classes we can add and remove
classes that means we can add or move
classes to that dom right we can add or
remove classes to the dom and so here
what i'm saying is a
find claire which is
the image right remember the image
and give it the class of hidden
right add the class of hidden
then find charlene the image of charlene
right and
add the class of hidden
all right now toggle what do you think
toggle means
toggle is the same thing as a light
switch
right if the light is on
right if the light is on and you hit the
switch
light goes off
all right
if i hit the switch again
light comes on
right so it toggles on and off
right and so the cool thing here is if
it already has hidden
it's going to remove it
if it doesn't have hidden it's going to
add it that's what the toggle means on
and off let's take a look let's save
this and see where we're at
come back let's refresh let's click on
andy
nothing happened
oh no
nothing happened i refreshed
nothing happened let's go back let's
take a look
did i do everything right
all right
andy next
what am i missing
oh you know what
all this other stuff is probably given
us an issue because we haven't fixed it
yet
let's actually open up the inspector if
we can see anything in here
let's take a look go to the console
unexpected token on line 16. the
inspector's saying hey there's an error
that you have unexpected token line 16.
you see main.js line 16. let's go look
at line 16.
it does not like our code here
right
it doesn't like the code here we haven't
filled it in yet so it's like oh there's
errors there's issues
let's comment this out
and let's comment out these two things
as well
right so now it's just the code that we
wrote
right now it's just the code that we've
worked on so far
let's go back let's refresh
and now let's click on andy
beautiful andy's photo comes
and if i click again andy's photo goes
away let's look in the dom and see
what's happening
so here are here are the images
right here are the images
right
look at andy look right here
right look specifically at this class
when i click
on the text of andy
when i click on andy for the first time
what's going to happen to that class
when i click on annie what's going to
happen to that class
it's going to toggle off it's going to
it's already there so the toggle's going
to remove it
boom it's gone so that hidden class is
gone if the hidden class is gone we can
see the image now
if i click
if i click andy again what's going to
happen to that class
we're going to add it back so right i'm
going to click three two one boom we can
see that hidden class come back
and as soon as that hidden class comes
back andy's photo goes away
right so what i have done is i have set
up an event listener
so that when i click
i am either adding hidden
or removing hidden now the other thing
here is that claire and charlene are
also getting the class hidden but does
it matter no because they already have
the class of hidden right if we look
we're saying
we're saying give claire hidden we're
saying give charlene hidden it just
doesn't matter because they already have
the class of hidden
right
but for andy we're toggling that on and
off
cool
all right let's go ahead and do the next
one for claire
actually we're going to do both of them
at the same time let's go ahead and
uncomment this
we know that this should be clarinets
cool because that's the name of the
claire function down here
and this one is called charlene next so
we can fill in that event listener as
well
let's go and do charlene next
beautiful
darlene next and then let's make sure
that our
our functions are working well so
if we're clicking on clear
andy should be what andy should get what
what should andy get for clicking on
claire
hidden yep should get hidden
all right and
charlene should get what as well
same thing right
darlene should get hidden
beautiful
and then andy
i'm sorry clear
is the one that should be toggled
all right a little toggle hidden there
that's all folks are saying is there a
way to make this dryer there is but
we're not there yet all right and the
last one for charlene we'll do the same
thing again
if we're clicking on charlene then andy
should go away
so we'll do the hidden here for for andy
and then we'll also do it on clear
it should be hidden
and then the last thing we have to do is
make sure that charlene
is the one
that is getting the toggle
now some folks are saying hey leon why
don't you need to do dot hidden like
since it's a class well you've already
told it that it's a class here so you
don't need the dot inside of here
cool
all right let's save all this stuff
and let's go to town let's go ahead and
see what we got
all right let's open up the the dom here
see we can see these these lovely images
you can see to start off they all have
hidden and let's click on charlene
all right charlene's lovely photo pops
up you can see that charlene is now
missing the class hidden
and here's the cool thing
if i go over and i click on claire right
away
boom
you can see that charlene gets hidden
but claire gets the toggle
right claire gets the toggle and so the
cool thing is you can jump now between
each person right you can jump between
each person
and it'll hide if the other ones are
already visible so if i go to andy i
know that claire and charlene are going
to get hidden only claire's showing
right now but i'm going to try and hide
both and then show andy
we also have the toggle
right so we can toggle andy away as well
right
so we can do the toggle all day
we can then jump between different ones
and know that as we jump to each person
the other ones will hide and we can
still toggle on the people that we're at
pretty nifty
all right
one more and then we're at we'll end
class one more example then we're going
to end class let's go ahead and take a
look at
number three
and close all these here
i'm going to open this in the browser
all right so
chat
let's uh make sure that uh we've all
been paying attention in juan pablo
season
of the bachelor who ends up with the
rose
who has the final rose in juan pablo
season of the bachelor
wonderful nikki is the one that has the
rose so what i want to have happen
is if you click on nikki
it should show her wonderful photo
and if you click on claire it should
alert wrong
right so nikki lovely photo claire
wrong and so let's go and take a look at
this code
there are some you can see that there
there is there are two contestants
one with claire and one nikki you'll
notice
that only nikki has the class of rose
right
both of them have the class of
contestant
but only thank you mmb but only nikki
has the class of rose
so
what i want you to do
is to write some code
that's going to enable
only
nikki's photo to show and they click on
claire to say wrong i'm going to put two
minutes on the clock
we're going to go over it together and
then we'll do a raid and end up class
all right go ahead two minutes try it
remember you don't have to know anything
that's happening in this code base
just use the building blocks you've
already seen
don't get hung up on the syntax don't
get hung up on new stuff being thrown at
you
do what you know how to do fix the
things that you know how to fix
milk thank you for the hydration cheers
to you
got a minute left
change
now i said boom 30k channel points baby
steps to a milli
in new york i'm really
in my stop
from these ops
a lot of done it's nice
a lot of dones okay okay see you
30 seconds and then we're gonna go over
it together
sometimes the playlist just gets it
right
all right folks come on let's go over
this one together
and then we'll wrap up with a raid
all right let's look at this one
alrighty so we want to be able to
click on clear and see wrong
click on nikki and see their lovely
photo so if we look there's some wild
sauce going on in here
right
first we're saying document query
selector all
so we've only seen query selector so far
right like we see query selector here
what do you think query selector all
enables us to do
yeah
enables us to grab all of them right
everything that has a specific what
we're just going to use a class let's go
ahead and use the class
contestants
right we look
we have the class oh it's contestant not
no s
contestant
right so let's just copy to make sure we
spelled it right
contestant
right and so that's gonna enable us to
grab all of the elements
that have that class
right grab all the elements that have
that class now here we have some fancy
pants code don't worry about this code
for now
what this enables us to do is it enables
us to put a smurf
on every single thing
that had the class of contestant
right this fancy pants code enables us
to plop smurfs on every single thing
that had that class
all right so if we're gonna put a smurf
on we're gonna make sure that whenever
we click on any of those things that
have that class we're going to run what
function
what function are we going to run
what function we're going to run
cool check for rows exactly
beautiful and so now if we just save
this what we have right now is we have
selected everything that had the class
contestant which means that both claire
and nicky are now selected because they
both had the class contestant
and with this line of code we've made
sure that both of them
have this click event
tied to it they both have the same smurf
same type of smurf listening for that
that that click
and so what we're gonna see is we're
going to say hey
the thing that we just clicked on
right that's that's what we're saying
the thing click.target the thing that we
just clicked on
does it have the class of what what are
we looking for the thing we just clicked
on does it have the class of what
rose exactly
looking for the class of rose
we're seeing if it has the class of rows
we've already said that we're looking
for a class so do we need the dot no we
already said we're looking for a class
we're saying hey
the thing the click.target is the thing
we just clicked on does it have the
class of rows if it does we know that
we've clicked on nikki and we should
toggle
the hidden class
right we should toggle the hidden class
right
we see that nikki by default has the
class of hidden so we should toggle that
hidden class
and if it doesn't have the rows we know
that it's not nikki
right
right we know it's not nikki so we
should alert rom
let's go ahead and save it
all right it's going to save it
let's see if it works
clicked on claire we got the alert of
wrong
click on nikki we get our lovely photo
a lot of folks are saying leon why don't
you need the dot hidden here well we
don't because we've already sorry we've
already said that it's a class
class list we don't need the dot here
because we already said that it's a
class
up here there's nothing to say that
we're talking about a class so we needed
the dot
yeah
all right
i know this is a lot
i know i threw a lot of code at you but
there's something i need you to do
between now and next class and that is
what what do i need you to do between
now and next class
i need you exactly i need you to play
with it i've we've talked about a lot of
lego bricks there are a lot of legos
here on the table that i need you to
play with break
try and understand how they come
together try and put them together in
different ways
no
there should be nothing in you that says
i don't get this
there's nothing to get about legos
you're going to try and play with them
you're going to re-type everything out
you're going to delete it you're going
to retype you're going to delete it redo
it type it you're going to do it over
and over again you're going to play
you're going to break and move it around
but you're playing you're trying to have
fun don't let any of that negative
energy
come on you don't let the imposter
syndrome sneak in and get got
you're literally playing with legos on a
roller coaster you should be having the
time of your life this has nothing to do
with your aptitude or your ability to
get this this is class two
of many many many many more to come so
please have fun play break down digest
try and get it to go different ways
upside down around the corner on the
block right do
all these different pieces
right and try to bring them back
together
all right let's do a raid
i always like to end with some some some
positivity some love please give them
some follows right i'm gonna hang out
with them for a while we've we've been
there before
i think we've done it this cohort but uh
they're they're good people
so let's go ahead
uh oh actually before we before we do
the raid i want to i just want to talk a
little bit about the homework there's
some more stuff for you to read for
homework
make sure you go ahead and read uh this
will be due on next tuesday and please
delete all the javascript do it again
play with it break it build it up
and i'll see you all on thursday so
let's go and set up the raid
and i will see you all over there have a
wonderful rest of your night
it's been great hanging out with y'all
it's been fun going into javascript for
the second night let's raid